[Music]
how to become a VP of
marketing welcome back to a fresh
episode of business growth show I'm your
host Sam Dunning and if you want to grab
my daily B2B marketing newsletter try
out my SEO and website playbooks as well
as past podcast episodes or to apply
with to work with my team head over to
Sam
dunn. org so join me today I've got Gwen
lafage Gwen is the VP of marketing and
brand over at cinch we're going to be
talking about how you can progress the
marketing ladder become a VP of
marketing we're going to be chatting
about if it's for everyone if it's a
good match for everyone in the marketing
world what a dayto day looks like steps
that you can actually take to progress
yourself eventually become a VP
marketing if you decide that's the route
you want to go we're going to dive into
a bit of Gwen's Journey with actionable
takes what to do what to avoid learning
on the way and we're going to talk about
what's actually working for Gwen and her
team over at cinch when it comes to
driving B2B revenue and pipeline so with
that when a warm welcome to the show how
are you doing I'm great thanks for
having me you're very welcome looking
forward to it it's a bit of an unusual
episode for us so I'm excited to get
stuck in so with that said let's get
straight into it VP marketing is it I'm
sure there's a ton of marketers watching
tuning listening thing eventually I'd
love to I'd love to get to that level
one day Gwen but is it for everyone is
it a position you encourage every Mark
to to to aim
for no I think the the answer is
definitely no I think it it really
depends I think you have to want want it
right like you have to want to be at
that at that level um and I think the
role also looks very different for
smaller companies and larger companies
right and I think it's also okay to not
want to to climb the ladder right I
think we are um we are pushed I guess
early on or like at the beginning of a
career to always want to thrive for
what's next right and grow and and take
the next step up um I think as you go
older you also realize that maybe not
and maybe not everybody needs to get
there you might own like a strong
expertise and not want to get to that VP
level when there's a lot of a lot of
meeting and a lot of management of teams
involved let's dive into that a bit more
so we I'm I'm glad you said no because
that would have been a short episode if
we just said yes to everything
um so it's not for everyone let's let's
dive a bit deeper I mean what what is it
is it what what does a kind of
day-to-day look like what are some
things that are good what are some
things that are bad let's let's dive
into that yeah so like I mentioned right
I think it looks a bit different uh
depending of the size of company you're
in VP VPN but I think no matter um what
I think you get to a stage where um it
implies that you have a team to manage
it implies that you have peers that are
also VP or or even leadership team I
think some VP Marketing in smaller
companies can be that the higher level
um marketer in the company which mean
that their peers are inell in customer
success um they're reporting to the CEO
but um it's not my case right I report
to a CMO and we have several other VPS
of marketing in in the team um but we
all have a team to manage we all spend a
lot of times in meeting and um uh having
a team to manage is something that not
everyone wants right like it's um not an
end goal at such and some people love
managing people and some people don't
some a lot of marketers um want to I
guess own their craft or own one part of
marketing that they are becoming expert
in um which mean that you want to do the
work maybe more than when you climb up
and then have a team that does more of
the day-to-day maybe work than than you
do so it becomes a different role and I
think it's wrong to think that you have
to just climb right you might want to
just own that craft uh and become an
excellent performance marketer an
excellent like content marketer senior
content marketer and only do that
because you love content and you don't
want to like spend your day looking at
the data in the spreadsheet and doing
one-on-one with people and attending
meetings all day right yeah yeah and
fully appreciate you're you're from a
large scale organization right and Y
pretty sure cinch of ipoed and they're a
large scale tech company right so we're
not talking about a small SAS or a St
B2B service exactly since she like on
the stock exchange in Stockholm um and
we we have a uh it's a company of 4,000
people and marketing about maybe
150 plus people so we have definitely a
large marketing team with several VPS on
supporting different teams so my team is
is a brand and creative and content team
um and there is other VP of marketing
that are VP of product marketing we PE
off like digital um there's head of
marketing in the region so those are my
my peers and we all own one part of the
of the the marketing department if that
makes sense it does it does and I think
this is a great example because a lot of
marketers will Aspire some like you say
would like to specialize perhaps don't
like the idea of eventually managing
people maybe just want to focus on it
whereas others be on the other end of
the spectrum where I think this sounds
awesome would love to get to that exact
that VP level and perhaps work in a
large scale or just like yourself so
when you say it goes from kind of more
Hands-On to more working with your team
management that kind of thing to to give
us to paint the picture what would you
say is like a a day-to-day split in
terms of what what does it look like is
it is it a lot of kind of calls with
your PE is there any customer calls is
there in Hands-On projects checking
dashboards I mean what what are we
talking about here yeah again I think it
varies what what your teams is made of
right what kind of expertise you you
have to manage um uh but I will say that
and also how many direct reports you
have right like obviously the more
direct reports the more kind of like one
want um you do I I like um working very
closely with with my team so I have
one-on one with with my direct reports
every week and then we also have like
team meetings um and then I I think like
that uh and then I'm part of some
specific products I will say
maybe 60% of the work um is more towards
kind of management and meeting with
peers and other uh people in the team
and then 40% and more ends on on certain
specific project I think there's a part
of it that is more U marketing strategy
or like because I lead the brand Team
like brand strategy that I will do kind
of myself preparing decks for either my
peers or um my managers um and then so
there's a strategic part there's the
management part and then there's more
the Deep dive into specific project when
you get brought in um and the larger the
organization I think the larger the the
more meanings you get I think that's
still something that we all try to solve
um post pandemic right like how do we
manage the amount of meeting but I think
that's definitely something that is um
that can be quite challenging to kind of
um secure time for deeper work um versus
like all the meetings I think one
essential thing when you become um a VP
of marketing is the needs to understand
the business so it's like it goes beyond
just like understanding your craft and
what you have to do for that specific
project but having in better overview
and a better understanding of what the
business does how the business makes
money what is expected from your boss
what is expected for his team um so that
you understand what what are the
challenges or what the expectation on on
yourself and your team right it kind of
like case get down but I think you have
to kind of have that overview and
understanding of what's Happening
elsewhere than in your team and not be
self-centered on just your your job
right what you have to deliver but have
that
overarching visibility on on the rest
and I mean I've been also um because I
managed like the a brand and creative
team and content people I obviously like
have good visibility on that and my
peers might be looking to other part of
the business when you become like a CMO
I think you especially as a large
organization like like ours I think um
we joke that you do more of the chiefing
than the marketing um so in so I think
it's it's kind of a a truth as you you
grow in your career is that maybe you do
less of The Craft and more of the
management of it got it I like something
you said just say Gwen you said you need
a o overall understanding of the
business not just to focus selfishly on
maybe your tasks for the day for the
week for the month tell us a bit more
about how aspiring marketers can put
that into play and what they should be
considering or actually doing
yeah so I think it's a lot of like
selflearning right and like making sure
that you don't um only focus on what you
have to deliver so like learn the
products um obviously again as a large
company we have a large portfolio but
having a really clear understanding of
what all the product does also read like
the annual reports get yourself into the
numbers understand like What's um what
what's happening when there's like
quarterly reviews attend all of those
kind of company meetings to really have
an understanding of how the business is
doing what are the metrics that matters
like um what growth look like for the
company what are the challenges that the
company faces and also learn the people
Dynamics I think that's a really
important part un like um what are like
the who is managing what right like what
does like um
what are the you know the the
collaboration that are going on and like
who is pulling what strength you know
like I think there is definitely um a
level of I don't like that word but
politics in a way involved right it's
more understanding people Dynamics in a
way of like um who's in charge of what
and how they work together I think
that's important if you want to kind of
know how to place yourself and network
so I think understanding the business
for me is like understanding the product
the market the competitors uh the
financials and the people in the
organization got it and would you say
it's a very stressful role like I can
say from my standpoint running a small
business is very stressful at times
there's a lot of lot of things to
consider whether that's the marketing
side of things driving your clients
making sure projects delivered marketing
ourselves just to name a few I'd imagine
there's quite a few things yourself with
managing a team hitting targets I don't
know if you're you're certain tied to
revenue numbers as well yourself but I'd
be interested to learn a bit more there
yeah I think it is a stressful role um
in might vary from one person to another
um I I'm a I will say maybe a stressed
person like I tend to be um anxious so I
think I'll say maybe all the roles I had
in my career were in a way stressful
roles because and I think you you make
them that way yourself right I think the
it's how you interpret it right like you
you generate the stress I think a bit
yourself but yeah in a way it is a bit
of a stressful Ro because there's a lot
of to juggles right and it's trying to
find Define priorities you have to take
some risk you have to make some
decisions um you can not rely on on
other people to make all the decisions
for you you have to feel responsible for
a team and their well-being and their
growth and so I think all of those part
can be stressful um at think we've been
through a lot of changes and managing
change is also something that could be
quite stressful because you well you
receive it right like you have to kind
of be a part of it but as a if you're a
VP or if you are certain level of a
career you also need to be there to
drive it right so it's kind of
understanding what's happening in the
company and um take that on and drive it
for your team so you need to be a just
feel like it's happening to you but like
you need to to um to be to take the the
wheels right like and and have an
understanding of where the company want
to go where your boss or your CEO wants
to go and help make those changes and
that can be quite stressful too because
you in charge of those
decisions in your role is it how closely
tied to revenue a uguen and when I say
that to give you more context like I
suppose the point I'm getting at is one
how close closely tied is your role to
revenue and
secondly how can we zoom out of that if
you are in the sense that let's say
you've got X as a Target I don't know
several million for the quarter then how
can you make sure that you're thinking
well I know I've got three months to hit
this I don't need to go super crazy on
day one but I need to bear in mind we've
got either a quarter or two quarters to
hit that so I need to make sure that my
team's doing XYZ steadily over the next
months to to make that happen yeah so I
think um overall in the marketing team
is very close to revenue right like and
I think it's very tied to revenue
numbers the way we are structur I think
some part of the marketing team are
closer like the team in the region or we
call them Regional or field teams they
work directly with sales teams on the
ground um because I am at the global
level and I also manage a team of of
creative and brand campaign and we
involv in certain um integrated campaign
with the rest of the regional teams but
we're a little less tied to revenue than
some of the rest of the marketing team
right less than the digital team that
have like very strong performance number
on the plg side and less to than the
regional team that are really tied to um
the sales L motions on the ground but we
still contribute and as you know with
brand it's a little a bit harder to kind
of measure especially on the short term
um so our our goals in kpi are last on
the short-term metrics um but I think we
look at how we influence um the revenue
and how our campaigns have an impact on
the overall other campaign that are done
in the in the marketing team right like
how do we move the needle from a brand
awareness we do a lot of consolidation
work so it's also how we enable the
teams to to drive more Revenue don't
know if that fully answer the question
but yeah we're a little less a little
less closer to it I think than like some
of the other teams in marketing yeah
yeah yeah I think I did now I've grilled
you quite a lot on some of the stresses
the negative side of things but what are
the what are the main perks in a role
like yours what are the what are the
pros what are the
advantages yeah um I mean I I really
enjoy working with the team um I I love
it I think that's something that that
give me a lot of energy
and I enjoy managing people I know it's
not the case of of everybody but I think
that's how I get my energy with the
exchange and so I wouldn't trade that um
I like being involved and like feeling
that I'm in control and having an impact
right so I think that to me is also
something that I thrive on when I can
see that our team is doing great and and
that's the thing the success of the team
becomes your own success right so I
think that's um something that I yeah
that I enjoy
um what else at the benefits being I
guess closer to what's happening at the
high level of the business feeling that
you have a a true impact and kind of
make some of those decisions I think is
something that is rewarding um yeah so I
think there's a lot of a lot of
definitely benefits for people that feel
like they want to do it right but they
have to want to do the work I think
that's something I haven't fully
mentioned but no one's get to like a
certain place in an organization by
mistake or you know like you I think
that's something I'm not promoting the
hustle you know but at the same time
there's no magic right like you have to
put in the work and I think that's
something
that yeah you you don't get there by you
know chance um so I think that's
something that is quite important you
have to want it have the drive push
yourself keep learning so that you also
stay in that place and don't feel that
you become irrelevant as your team of
experts bring something to you but I
think it's also a misconception to feel
that you have to know it all um
especially as the team grows and you get
very strong expert in your team that
will know certain part better than you
ever will I'm quite a generalist so
there's definitely a lot of expert that
know much more than I do on specific
part of marketing
and that's okay you have to be you know
okay with that for sure you can't we
can't know everything can we I mean
there's so much to be to be marketing
but exactly I like what you said just
now there's there's not so much luck
involved to get to a position of this
level there there's a lot of hard work
could you give us an
example perhaps in your career where
maybe you feel that you worked your ass
off or you did something that just I
don't know you're on the edge of burnout
something like that and that that is
although a lot of anti- hustle culture
might say no never do that but you feel
that's something you actually had to do
in order to get where you are
today I I think you have to like you
have to prove yourself right like I
think that's that's the thing you have
to kind of gain Trust of the people who
work with you of the people who manage
you and it doesn't always have to come
with a lot of hours of work but you have
to be there and visible and present I've
worked in my career in in global
organization with across time zones and
if you decide that yeah you're never
going to be working after six for
example well if there is a meeting that
is at 708 because you're talking to
someone in I don't know Australia or San
Francisco when you're in Europe and you
you just have to do it right like
otherwise you miss out in some of those
opportunities to be there and learn
something and share your opinions and
it's just yeah it's just the nature I
think of some of those global
organization and I think the the work um
as much as you try to kind of maybe
condense it and only do certain hours I
think there's moments in time in the
career where you just have to push it a
bit more um a critical moment big change
um you're on the verge of maybe getting
a promot
you have to kind of show that you
deserve it you have to be visible right
like and and um know how to kind of
share your achievement and it comes with
working for it right like I I think like
it's um yeah as needed I don't have like
the I my career is not like the linear
path to like becoming a VP of marketing
or like you know I I didn't start in
like uh my career in a in a B2B
tech company as a marketing coordinator
or like a performance or I started my
care in agencies and so I think there's
also a lot of different paths to get to
where you want and I didn't know 10
years ago that I wanted to be a VP
Marketing in a tech company so I think
there's a lot of different ways you can
get to where you want to be and that and
where you want to be my evolv with your
career right I think I I like this idea
of a squiggly career I don't know if
you've heard that terms before there's a
book on it where you're like especially
now there's no more linear path maybe in
the age of our parents they did like a
one thing but I think now we all go
through phases and you might go back and
forth and laterally and you know and
that's also okay there's no you know
reason you just have to go up up up oh
for sure I can certainly resonate I've
I've done all kinds of sales jobs I've
came and left web design and SEO jobs I
almost joined the army I've worked in Co
centers I've nearly done it all Gwen so
I can certainly relate um good so yeah
it' be good to dive a bit deeper into
kind of how you come about the the VP
marketing role and perhaps any mistakes
any takeaways along the way because
you've ran your own business for a
little while as well right if I was
looking at LinkedIn so tell us a bit
more about how you don't have to share
every role but some of those key roles
that you had perhaps up to the Tipping
Point of you thought actually I'm going
to go for VP of marketing and maybe any
any gems along the way that we can dive
into yeah so I think like I um I started
my career in agencies and I always
wanted to work with creative teams right
work with designers and that's something
that was always interested and I started
working with consumer Brands um and the
agency life was really tough I was in
London and in Paris at the time and at
some point I made the decision of like
no more agencies there was aot lot of
politics involved there was like a lot
of yeah I just didn't feel I wanted to
do that so I that's when I left for San
Francisco and I started my own business
and I had a um a gallery so like
completely something completely
different working with artist promoting
artist um so yeah I didn't start my
business in marketing I was like hey I'm
done with marketing I that's yeah I'm
done with the ageny life completely got
out of it and did something completely
opposite exactly you know I followed my
passion they said like you know follow
your passion and you'll never work a day
in your life well I don't believe that
too much because I
think at that point when your passion
becomes your job I think somewh somehow
it becomes a little less of a passion
and becomes a job so I think at at that
point I love my times running your
gallery right and running my business
but that was also really hard work and
it was it was tough and it was just not
um compatible with like the the balance
the work life balance I wanted at the
time um I had a baby and I was like yeah
this is this is not going to be working
out because I had like a physical
Gallery I was working weekends and
evenings um so again like you know you
you you cannot start your own business I
know there's a lot of like influencers
and you can see on LinkedIn yeah start
your own go on your own and become a
Freelancers and you work half the time
and make twice the money well yeah I
don't believe that one minute I think
that's right and you can testify it's
it's not it's not the truth right like
you you have to work to kind of succeed
or you have to decide that success for
you looks like something different than
what Society of ingrain I try to tell us
it is it could be that you you work less
and dedicate more time to your family
but it's okay with the money you make
and it's not that chasing this up up up
um roll again so sorry I know I diverge
but that just came to mind um and yeah
so I think at some point after the
gallery I was in San Francisco and um I
decided okay I need to make money again
and I found a job in a small B2B Tech
agency and that was my first um job in
B2B rather than working with large
consumer brand and the agency was also
30 people maybe a bit less so very small
company and I realized that I really
enjoy that and find a new a new passion
I guess for for B2B marketing and what
like was happening there versus working
with consumer brand and at least a new
interest or renewed interest in in
marketing um let's go let's take one
step back just before we carry on the B
to
B so the art gallery how long did you do
that for Gwen um
let me see maybe four years or maybe a
bit more um between the time I yeah
crafted the business had the I had a
physical in online Gallery um and yeah
something like that I can imagine that
was really hard work to to get customers
into into an art gallery and and
sell I don't know what you were selling
exactly your own paintings people's
paintings uh photography my P was in
photography so I was selling um um uh
photos of global or International
artists or artists from all around the
world um the gallery was in San
Francisco and um and then I had a photo
book so I will do book signings and
openings of shows and um it was it was a
lot of hard work it was it was really
fun I have like zero regret because I
love working with artists um I love
putting shows together I love the
creative side of it um but yes in a way
a gallery is also a shop and I think
like the shop owning a store was maybe
the part that I like last retail is
really hard oh yeah so it yes so yeah oh
I I can relate without talking about my
own story too much my wife's uh
assistant manager in a retail store I
lasted in retail about six months I
hated it so much I got out as soon as I
could she's been doing it for like 20
years so much respect for anyone in
retail but with that said there must
have been some like running your own
business must have given you some useful
lessons going in the deep end trying to
attract customers do your own marketing
do your own sales keep everyone a float
keep cash flow a float keep any staff a
float that must have been giving you
some really good takeaways that you're
probably still using today right yeah
exactly I think like starting trying to
do something for yourself with your own
money right like you measure risk in a
very different different way
um and you also know that you have to
spend money to make money right it's a
bit of a cliche but it's so true when
you small entrepreneur yeah you have to
like get out there you have to like um
do all the jobs that at once and I think
that
multitasking that kind of risk and
responsibility and um feeling that when
you deal with company money you look at
it as if you were if it was your own
money I think it's a really life lesson
um to not kind of like overspend because
you feel yeah it's okay we have the
budget but also try to focus on on work
works and also be creative I think
that's something that I've
always thought was was interesting I've
always been on the creative side of of
marketing and doing things a bit
differently trying to stand out building
a brand it's also something you need
when you do your own business right and
I think it's valuable lesson and that's
why I continue being on that creative
brand side of marketing um learning
about your customers talking to them
like all of those things and I think
that's that was definitely a a good
lesson will learn with my own business I
think like looking back at it I probably
didn't have the best product Market fit
um so I think it's yeah that was kind of
an interesting learning right like how
do you talk to customers and understand
that there is a need and a desire for
what you do
that's it not not tons of companies do
right when they start out I mean often
product Market fit is adapted you think
prospects have one problem then when you
actually start selling it and go into
market then you realize the problems
changed from what you initially thought
um but no I appreciate you sharing that
that story so moving forward got into
B2B Tech never looked back yeah exactly
up until now I think like I um I really
enjoyed it I think there is like um a
great great part on like helping B2B
company there's more complexity than
selling I don't know shampoo or you know
yeah um so I think that's um there's
more more complexity there in some ways
I love learning about the new technology
um I like the variety I was on the
agency side the variety of the tech
companies we were working with and
seeing the growth that they were going
through I think that was fascinating um
so I think it was like I got kind of
inserted in this Silicon Valley
atmosphere um and that yeah that got to
me and I really enjoyed that and always
with this kind of mission of seeing the
value of creativity and brand in my
previous jobs and career how I could
bring that to B2B right and like how I
could start to really push that that or
be that voice on like hey there's so
much value in building a brand no matter
who you are and if you're B2B company
like you need to kind of have those
brand those strong brand to stand out um
and that's kind of what I've I've been
on the mission to do I guess since so
yeah nice and so from B2B Tech agency
side to eventually where you are now on
the internal marketing team how did that
kind of transition come about and when
was the point like what what did that
job role start as to eventually think
when The Tipping Point was when you
thought actually I W to kind of go for
kind of VP level yeah I think at some
point I was a bit um so I moved to
Stockholm to open the office of the
agency we had in San Francisco and open
our European office there um and again
that was a bit like starting my own
business except it wasn't fully my own
right like um but starting a business in
a new location selling getting new
clients um and it was it was tough it
was it was hard and I enjoyed it very
much learned a lot about the TCH scene
in in Europe and in Stockholm and at
some point decided I needed something
new it had been long enough at that
company and I really asked myself should
I just go for another agency role and do
kind of almost the same but bit
different or should I try to go on on
the on the dark side on the client side
um and I felt it was the right time in
my career to to try something new and
see if I liked it right it was the kind
of the first time for me to go in house
and um I looked for the job I was lucky
enough to find a position at cinch um
and I started there this was my and
that's why I'm still are almost three
years in my first kind of In-House role
um so I was yeah grateful for you know
my madro who who saw the potential in me
and I um became like VP of marketing in
that in that company and seen the team
and the company grow very fast in the
three years that I've been there um so
it's been interesting because I I I came
in with like a a small team and in three
years the team of on my role the team
have changed the marketing team have
evolved a lot so I kind of had a growth
in my career because of the growth of
the company and I think that's a way
that you can also become VP or grow grow
right in your career it's like if you
tag along with people that are jumping
and going through up the ladder if you
if you work well with them they will
bring you on their Journey or um
starting a company that had the
potential to grow and grow with it so I
think there's a lot of different ways
you can you can manage your career jump
companies right A lot of people do a lot
of jumping around to get the next uh
level up but again I think it's asking
yourself are you doing it for the right
reason because that's the role you want
to and that you think you're going to
love that role or is it because it feels
like it's the thing to do to just go up
but I think it's um interesting I think
a lot of people
get I feel like it's it's the right
natural step but might not end up being
in a job that they love so were you a
general manager before you became a VP
was that right or was it something else
yeah exactly so was general manager of
the agency in stockolm of the creative
B2B Tech agency so I started the company
there I I started a team um I found the
business um and then I become VP yes got
it how did you know that you were going
to be good at managing
people managing yeah and man managing
people you never know until you try it
right like um and honestly I still don't
know if I'm good at managing people I'm
kidding but like I'm hoping I am but and
and the thing is like I think I'm also
not good at managing every type of
people um and probably not every type of
people in different stage of their
career right like I'm I'm maybe a bit of
a hands off boss for example so working
with with very Junior people my not be
my best
strains um so I think
it's first you have to like try it right
because we we're not really prepared for
it right I think it's it's almost like
you become really good at a job and then
you become manager but you might be
really good at a job and not be good at
a manager right like um sales is a
really great example of that like the
best salesman could be a terrible boss
but they could be a really good
salesperson right like um so I think
it's a different job and that's
something that not everyone realized
because we chase the next things up but
I think it's you have to think about do
I want that role of like managing people
and then are you good at it or not I
think you have to self teach yourself on
like what it means to be a good um
manager what leaderships mean um I still
I'm still learning I think like that's
something that you don't stop learning
about and it takes a lot of
self-awareness um I think to to kind of
enjoy that leadership role and have
empathy for people and and know that
you you don't have to know everything to
be a manager and it's okay it's okay to
admit that you don't um I like building
relationship with the people I work with
with regardless of if I'm managing them
or like or not I think it's it's how we
can do things together and building
collaborations I think it's something
that makes good good
managers appreciate you sharing it I
think that I'm very impatient so I don't
know if I've ever had the patience to
manage a team although I've worked with
small teams in terms of designers
developers seos on our own team I think
that's something I'd struggle with but
it sounds like you've got the patience
of a God so yeah I don't know about that
I'm not a very patient person to be
honest but I yeah no I'm not I'm like
I'm um yeah I like things to go fast and
I'm like I'm not the most patient but I
um I do really enjoy the collaboration
when I see people growing and like um
working together to solve a problem and
and I think I see that as
like Adam M is still part of the team
you might make some of the decisions but
I think you're part of the team and you
work together with the best the best
talent leveraging all the people
expertise um that's a bit more way the
way I see it but yeah no I'm not the
most patient person that's why maybe
working with like some of the more
Junior marketers might not be my my
strengths but I think it's it's like um
yeah
being yeah enjoying that collaboration
is essential and enjoying seeing people
grow and how you can help them is
something you need to to embrace right
you need to like that um and I
definitely love when I see people in the
team grow and when they when I can push
themselves I push myself a lot and I
push others a lot and I think that's um
also not maybe for everyone but um yeah
and I I think that's what you need as
well when you're a manager right like
being able to push
people you got to get results right yeah
exactly targets if you're not
encouraging and helping your team hit
that like what's the point and there's
there's different way you can do it in a
nice way I think that's the other thing
that like um you not every manager are
the same and you can have some that are
very attactive and maybe like um and you
can also do it in in a very
collaborative way I think I would work
in Sweden I've definitely taught me
different style of leadership um which
um still embracing it's a very
collaborative style um which I think is
is actually really good you get the best
of people when they happy in their role
right and um rather than managing with
fear or you know so I think that's
something that I'm I like embracing and
find joy
in what do you think what would you say
were the two or three skills that you
had to develop along the way in order to
think you're ready to to get a vpm
marketing role and actually gain it on
that interview for example what you had
to cinch when you nailed it and secured
the
role
um I don't know if there's skills um but
I think that I mention because skills to
me are very much into the
the or maybe soft skills maybe more than
like the hard skills it learning call it
learning if you wish yeah exactly um I
think the the ability to make decisions
um I think is is an important one right
like the ability to make those decision
fast and giving like a clear direction
to a team um is something that you have
to learn like managing up and this kind
of like idea of learning again the
business and I think is something that
I've learned is very important as well
um collaboration and developing those
those collaborative approach with people
within the company so that actually
people see the value and enjoy working
with you I know they're saying you don't
you don't want to be you don't have to
be someone that people like but you have
to be someone that people recognize
achieve things and make things happen so
it's like how you push yourself and push
others to make things happen um what are
some of the other other skills I think
like networking and visibility I think
is an important one for someone um in
house as well it's like learn to share
somehow your achievement and you need to
be visible to be considered and I know
it's a tough one because there's some
amazing people that might
never get that promotion or like because
they don't they're not good at
networking it's it's a tough one because
I think like you would want to to
promote the best people and some that
are more introvert might not be as good
at like networking and and promoting
themselves but I think it's something
that is quite important
H last one before we wrap things up and
talk about what what's working for
marketing today to drive pipeline at
cinch for the actual interview itself
I'd imagine that's pretty tough I've
never never interviewed to be a VP
myself I'd imagine that's I'd imagine
several rounds quite competitive going
against a lot of other people quite a
lot of stuff to present
answer what was yours like was it tough
yeah I think it's um I I joke that I I
bit fell between the cracks um I think
the I will say yes in general yes and
some of my colleague who started at the
same time they had like um really lot of
different interviews and presenting
stuff and going through a lot of
different rounds I um took a risk when I
went from uh from I went from the agency
to inh house where I came in as a
replacement of someone on my teny leave
so I took on a replacement job that was
I think a year um so because it was like
a contract job um I didn't have to go
through the same level of interviewing
and I had um obviously some interview
with a CMO and then some interview with
the person that I was going to replace
and um we hit it on straight away and I
had like I had some relationship of some
discussion with this company before when
I was on the agenty side they were a
prospect of mine so I had started to
develop some I had started to know some
people in the company before I had never
managed to get them as a
client but they were still a prospect so
they they had seen me I think like
presenting with the agency and then I
had a couple of interviews and it was
for a contract so I didn't go through a
very tough process but after the year of
um uh contract they they kept me on so I
guess I did prove myself on the job
rather than through a lot of
interviews so in a way I got it like you
know again there's not one path there's
a lot of different ways would have had
the same type of job you know now if I
had apply you know for VP overall and go
through all those interviews who knows I
don't know I will never know but uh yeah
I like the tip in in short we're saying
don't go in cold go for if you can build
a warmer relationship before you need to
go to the interview so it's almost a
hack right isn't it because you you'd
know cont there they trusted you they
knew you they probably connected you on
LinkedIn sen your content all that good
stuff exactly 100% And I think that's
like what what LinkedIn is about as well
right and I think um when you look today
right at all of those jobs out there and
the market is quite hard and there's a
lot of marketers looking for jobs and
there's basically so many people
applying to any marketing job I don't
know hundreds of people um I'm not sure
it works until you re unless you really
have some relationships with people in
the company and the networking to me is
is essential knowing someone there um
and that's why LinkedIn plays a role
right for job
Seekers love it appreciate you showing
last off let's let's wrap this thing up
Gwen um just curious to know you run the
the VP marketing brand side what is
working right now we're recording this
2024 what's working well for cinch from
a brand marketing perspective so from a
brand marketing perspective we are
looking into re revamping some of our
programs right now but I think some of
the tests we've done uh from last year I
guess I will pick two things um one
is working with subject matter experts
um and working building the brands
through the people in the company so I
think that's something that I really
believe in it's like how you use those
experts and you help them build their
own brand and their own kind of sharing
that expertise and you build your brand
awareness through them um so I think
that's something that I believe in to
call it like employee advocacy but not
like the can LinkedIn post that you
share with your entire company that they
go and repost right like working with
some of those experts or your sea level
right like your exact team to have them
build that so leadership and uh gain the
trust of of the market through through
them I think that's something to me that
is important that all companies even B2B
definitely can should do um that's one
and then the second one I think is
thinking about um integrated campaigns
or integrated series like I think those
are two ways like not thinking about
marketing as like random acts of
individual tactics but how things come
together so either building an
integrated campaigns or integrated
program that have a lot of pieces into
it from Brand perspective to you know
the different stage of the of the funnel
how you build content that took to each
other and that you can take people on a
journey but that feels integrated or
making serious right serializing I think
your your content whether it's like a a
podcast or even written content series
or like video series I think like how
you you build things uh over time and
how things can need to work together to
be um
effective love it awesome stuff Gwen
thank you very much it's been an
enjoyable episode appreciate you
candidly sharing everything across your
journey the good the bad the ugly and
what's worked well when it comes to
progressing to VP marketing so thanks
once again um we will put a link to
cinch Below in the description apart
from that where else can everyone else
connect with you learn from you anything
you want to share yeah on LinkedIn I'm
uh pretty active I guess there and you
can definitely um find me and um connect
with me message me I'll I'll get two
messages eventually um and yeah I I love
networking and I love definitely like
meeting new people in the space and
exchanging ideas so um thanks again for
for having me and um yeah happy to keep
connecting with um people that are
listening to your show awesome good
stuff we'll put a link to Gwen's
LinkedIn as well below in the
description and there we go appreciate
you tuning in as always if you enjoyed
the episode quick rating or review goes
a long way and if you want to check out
the daily
newsletter previous episode or apply to
work with us head over to d.org
appreciate you tuning in and catch you
on the next one